All right
so now that you know how to work with
many to many polymorphic relationship.
Now it's time to use that in one application.
Let's open the user model
and here I'm going to define new method
public function here
I'm going to call it vote
the question
the first argument will be question instance.
And the second argument is the vote
actually
let me change this to vote question
because I think this more simpler
but of course you can name it with other names you like.
So the votes questions in plural is our relationship method.
And here the vote question in singular will be our
customer method that place all vote logic or how the user
vote the question and other stuff.
Here when the current user is going to vote a
particular question then we need to make sure that
he or she hasn't vote it before.
If yes then the existing vote record will be updated
otherwise new record will be inserted.
If you remember to do this kind of stuff we can use
this query
so here firstly let's call this then vote questions.
Here in plural which is the relationship method.
And then let's assign this to a variable.
I'm going to call it vote questions
and then here we can say if vote questions where
votable id is
question id
and then exists
then here we update the record by saying vote questions
update existing pivot question
and then vote vote
else
we insert new record by saying vote questions
attach question and then vote
vote.
Next after a user vote a question we need
to recount the total number of votes right?
Do you have any idea how to do that?
Here we cannot utilize eloquent event because it cannot
be applied in many to many relationship model.
So in this case we need to do that manually
and it's very straightforward actually.
We only need to sum up between the number of votes up
and number of votes down and then assigning it to
votes count column in question model so firstly last call question
load vote
to refresh the votes relationship and then we
can the sum the vote down by saying question votes
where pivot
vote one
and here I'm using sum vote. Here I'm using sum
instead of count because count method will count
the total number of votes in return positive number.
While sum method will sum the votes and will
returns both a negative number or positive number
then we can assign it to a variable
let's say down votes
and here I'll type cast to integer to make sure
that the value is integer because
here I see it was in string
less duplicate look this line
and change to up
vote
Actually this should be negative one.
I made a typo
this should be up votes.
So we need to sum both of these down votes and up
votes and assign it to votes count and we can do that
like this question votes count
up votes plus down votes. And the last
save changes into our database by saying
question
save.
And here we can make this more simpler like this
down votes and then change this to up
votes. All right now we can switch to question model
and here we need to define up
votes
and here we simply say return this
and then paste the previous code.
The reason why I don't call the sum method in here is
because we probably need to display the collection
of users that has voted up the question instead of showing the total number of users.
Let's duplicate this method
and change to down vote
Here
The vote should be 1 for up votes and -1 for down votes